Up until now, we have used the API key for authentication.
While that works,
API keys are mostly used to authenticate applications rather than users.
Our Task Manager application will have real users,
so we need to authenticate them.
To select authorization mode, we need to navigate to our API settings,
and in the Default authorization mode.
Here we have the API key selected, but we have a couple of authorization modes.
We can use AWS Identity and Management console,
we can use OpenID Connect or Amazon Cognito User Pools.
For this demo, we are going to use Amazon Cognito User Pools.
We are not going to cover configuring Amazon Cognito User Pools in this course.
If you want to learn more about Amazon Cognito,
check my other course,
Implementing User Access and Authentication Using Amazon Cognito,
which covers in detail configuring Cognito User Pools and client applications.
Once we choose Amazon Cognito User Pools, then we need to select the region.
My region is US‑East‑1.
Next, we need to select the pool.
For the Default action, we can choose either ALLOW or DENY.
For this demo,
we are going to choose ALLOW so everyone who is
authenticated will be allowed to access the data.
There will not be secondary checks.
Now, let's save the changes and navigate back to our client application.
In our client application,
we need to configure our AWS‑APPSYNC client so we can
set the current authenticated user.
First thing that we need to do is configure the Amazon Cognito to
support authentication with our application.
Again, If you want to go into details, check out my course,
Implementing User Access and Authentication with Amazon Cognito,
as we will not cover the details, but we are going to do a quick walkthrough.
First we import the Authentication and Hub modules from the aws‑amplify.
Next,
we configure the authentication module with the user pool
details from our Globomantics user pool.
Then, using the Hub module provided by AWS Amplify,
we'll listen for authentication events.
Every time a user is signed in, signed out,
we'll load the current user and display it in the UI.
The rest of the logic here is UI manipulation to show the logged‑in user.
If you are using the exercise files to adapt this to your user pool,
you will need to change the values in the authentication configuration here.
Now,
let's configure our APPSYNC client to support
community user pools authentication.
Here, the getUser function returns the current logged‑in user.
If the current logged‑in user is null,
then we are not going to make a request since we are not logged in.
Using the authentication module from the current session,
we can get the access token using the getAccessToken,
from which we can get the JSON web token using the getJwtToken
function before we use the API key authentication.
So, in the type, we use the specify API key. Now in the type we
need to specify AMAZON COGNITO USER POOLS.
We can use authentication type enumeration,
which is found in the APPSYNC library,
and then we can quickly get Amazon Cognito User Pools.
And for a value we need to specify the JSON Web Token,
after which we load the tasks.
Now, let's save the changes and try this in action.
We can see if we reload the page no request is made.
That's because we are not logged in.
We can log in using the Login button.
This will redirect us to the hosted UI where we can log in.
And once we are logged in, now we can see our tasks.
Here, if we inspect the GraphQL query that we just made,
we can see the authorization header that was specified, which is our access token for the current logged‑in user.